# README

* Welcome to this site and thanks for your interest in trying out our uniform interpolation (UI) tool and logical difference (UI-Diff) tool. Both tools are implemented in Java using the **OWL API**, so to get them work, first make sure you have JDK/JRE installed on your machine.
* Your feedbacks are always welcome!

## GUI

* We would also like to invite the reviewers/users to try out user-friendly web access to these tools via [here](http://www.forgettingshow.info).

## Environment requirement

* JDK 1.8

## Description of the UI tool

* The UI tool is a high-performance prototype for computing uniform interpolants of **acyclic ELH-TBoxes**. It can be used as a Java library or a standalone tool for UI and related tasks.

* A uniform interpolant is a restricted view of an ontology that uses only a sub-signature of the ontology, namely, the interpolation signature, while preserving all logical entailments over the interpolation signature. A uniform interpolant can be computed by forgetting the names (usually incrementally) not  in the interpolation signature (the set of the names to be forgotten is called the forgetting signature) in such a way that all logical entailments are preserved up to the remaining signature, which amounts to the interpolation signature.

* Our UI tool can always compute a uniform interpolant for acyclic ELH-TBoxes. If an input TBox is not an ELH one, our tool simply takes the ELH fragment of the TBox and discards those axioms not expressible in ELH. If an input TBox is a cyclic one containing cyclic dependencies over the names in the forgetting signature, the result cannot always be represented finitely without fixpoint operators. Since fixpoint operators are not supported by OWL API, our UI tool introduces additional concept names, namely definers, to the output TBox that simulate the behaviour of fixpoint operators. In this sense, the result is no longer a uniform interpolant, since it contains extra names that are not in the specified interpolation signature.

## Run of the UI tool

* To run the forgetting method, go to  **/src/forgetting/Forgetter.class** and call the method: 

  ```java
  public Set<OWLAxiom> ForgettingAPI(Set<OWLObjectProperty> roles, Set<OWLClass> concepts, OWLOntology onto)
  ```

* The input are a set of role names to be forgotten  ( ``` Set<OWLObjectProperty> roles ``` ),  a set of concept names to be forgotten ( ``` Set<OWLClass> concepts ``` ) and an ELH-TBoxes from which the concept and role names are forgotten ( ``` OWLOntology onto ``` ).

* The output is another ELH-TBox which is a Σ-uniform interpolant of the TBox ``onto``, represented as a set of OWLAxioms.

* An example illustrating the usage of the UI tool is included in the Forgetter.class.

## Description of the UI-Diff tool

* The UI-Diff tool is a high-performance prototype for computing a finite representation of the logical difference **UI-Diff(T1, T2)** between two ELH-TBoxes T1 and T2. The tool implements a two-step algorithm with the **first step** computing a Σ-uniform interpolant V2 of T2 for Σ = sig(T1) ∩ sig(T2) using the UI tool, and the **second step** computing the UI-witness set W2 by collecting all axioms α ∈ V2 with T1 ⊭ α using the DL reasoner ELK.

* As a third step, it may be useful to partition the UI-witnesses into explicit and implicit UI-witnesses. An explicit UI-witness is the one that is originally contained in T2. An implicit UI-witness is the one that is originally not contained in T2, but entailed by T2. Implicit UI-witnesses are generated by uniform interpolation.

* UI-Diff(T1, T2) computes the information gain from T1 to T2, or information loss from T2 to T1. So if one wants to compute the information gain from T2 to T1 (information loss from T1 to T2), just swap the places of T1 and T2, i.e., **UI-Diff(T2, T1)**.

## Run of the UI-Diff tool

* To run the UI-Diff method, go to **/src/forgetting/LDiff.class**, and call the method:

  ```java
  public void compute_LDiff(OWLOntology onto_1, OWLOntology onto_2, String path)
  ```

* The input are two ELH-TBoxes T1 ( ```onto_1``` ), T2 ( ```onto_2``` )  and a ```path``` specifying the location where you want the output to be locally saved.

* The output are a set of UI-witnesses, a set of explicit UI-witnesses and a set of implicit UI-witnesses, all represented as .owl files. 
* An example illustrating the usage of the UI-Diff tool is included in the LDiff.class.

